# noise_driven_odd_elastic_wave
These codes and datasets have been used for the study to generate persistent noise-driven odd elastic waves in overdamped chiral active matter. This study can be found in arXiv: S.H. Choi, Z.-F. Huang, N. Goldenfeld. Noise-driven odd elastic waves in living chiral active matter, arXiv:2411.09615[cond-mat.soft] (2024) (DOI: https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2411.09615)

# Code description

**toymodel_noise_multirun.c** : simulation of the toy model of a spring network with both longitudinal and transverse interactions. This model is based on C. Scheibner, A. Souslov, D. Banerjee, P. Surowka, W.T.M. Irvine and V. Vitelli. Odd elasticity, _Nature Physics_ **16**, 475-480 (2020), but we added noise to the model.

**starfish_noise_multirun.c** : simulation of the starfish embryo model based on the work T.H. Tan, A. Mietke, J. Li, Y. Chen, H. Higinbotham, P.J. Foster, S. Gokhale, J. Dunkel and N. Fakhri. Odd dynamics of living chiral crystals, _Nature_ **607**, 287 (2022). We added noise to the model through the self-propulsion of the embryos.

**test_damping.ipynb** : analyze the data from both the toy model and the starfish embryo model in the absence of noise. 

**simulation_band_analysis_plots.ipynb** : analyze the data from both models with noise. 

**non-interacting_selfcircling_multirun.c** : simulation of non-interacting particles that circle around. This is to check the effect of self-circling motion to the dispersion result.

**non-interacting_self-circling_analysis.ipynb** : analyze the data from non-interacting self-circling particles.

**starfishmodel_wupdate_test.c** : simulation to test the effect of updating the self-spinning frequency.

**starfishmodel_wupdate_test.ipynb** : analyze the data generated by the above code.

**starfishmodel_phasediag_Lindemann.c** : calculate the dynamic Lindemann ratio while simulating the starfish embryo model. It prints the value of dynamic Lindemann ratio during the simulation, so if the value is large enough and the simulation is stuck, it should be manually aborted.

**starfishmodel_phasediag_melting_analysis.ipynb** : plot the time series of the dynamic Lindemann ratio for different parameters to estimate the phase boundary at which the dynamic Lindemann ratio diverges.

**starfishmodel_phasediag_wave_multirun.c** : run multiple iterations of the starfish embyro model and calculate the average dynamic Lindemann ratio and the maximum correlation function at M point of the first Brillouin zone. We ended up not using the max C at M point calculated by this code because it just picked up the self-circling signal, but we are providing this code because it generated the correlation function data used to determine the phase boundary.

**starfishmodel_phasediag_wave_analysis.ipynb** : calculate the coefficient of variation (CV) for the current correlation functions at M point of the first Brillouin zone. Generate the double axis plot of the maximum current correlation function at M point and CV to determine the phase boundary.

**starfishmodel_noise_analysis_singlerun.c** : single run of simulation of the starfish embryo model that records the time series of the coordinate and the velocity of each agent in addition to the current correlation functions.

**starfishmodel_noise_statistics_analysis.ipynb** : analyze the statistics of noise in velocity from the starfish embryo model. At the end of the code, also analyze the statistics of randomly generated numbers that represent the velocity deviation in self-circling to verify the effect of finite time interval for velocity calculation on the statistics of noise in velocity.

**starfishmodel_emulation_analysis.ipynb** : analyze the starfish embryo model simulation data emulating the experiment by generating the dispersion relations. 

**expt_data_analysis_traj.ipynb** : process the experimental data used in T.H. Tan, A. Mietke, J. Li, Y. Chen, H. Higinbotham, P.J. Foster, S. Gokhale, J. Dunkel and N. Fakhri. Odd dynamics of living chiral crystals, _Nature_ **607**, 287 (2022) for our analysis so that we only use the trajectories of the embryos that are long enough. For the original experimental data, please contact Prof. Tzer Han Tan (tztan@ucsd.edu) or Professor Nikta Fakhri (fakhri@mit.edu).

**expt_3dFFT.c** : generate Fourier-transformed current correlation functions from the data processed in the above code.

**expt_analysis_plots.ipynb** : analyze the current correlation functions from the processed experimental data.

**expt_noise_extract.ipynb** : extract the noise statistics from the experimental data.

**toymodel_wave_propag.c** : simulate the toy model with space-dependent noise to observe propagation of waves.

**toymodel_wave_propag_multirun.c** : run multiple iterations of the toy model simulation with space-depedent noise.

**toymodel_wave_propag_analysis.ipynb** : generate the movie for the propagating wave behavior and the dispersion relations plot.

# Data generated from simulation

Data generated from simulation are in the folder "simulation_data". For the description of each dataset, please refer to the .md file in each folder.

# Experimental data

For the experimental data, please contact Prof. Tzer Han Tan (tztan@ucsd.edu) or Professor Nikta Fakhri (fakhri@mit.edu). In the .md file in the folder "processed_expt_data", the description for how the data are processed is provided.
